Update steps and images for new project setup page (#9577)
circleci/circleci-docs: docs/guides/modules/orchestrate/pages/set-up-triggers.adoc

= Set up triggers
:page-platform: Cloud, Server v4+
:page-description: A guide to setting up triggers for your pipelines.
:experimental:

Triggers are configurable rules that determine when to automatically run a pipeline based on specific events and conditions.

> A project can have one or more triggers, which are associated with events from a source of change. The most common type of trigger is a VCS event, for example, a push to a branch on a GitHub repository. Any system that can emit outbound webhooks can be set up as a trigger. A trigger can have only one pipeline but a pipeline can have multiple triggers.

Reviewer: We should frame triggers as attributes of a **pipeline**, not a project. A trigger cannot exist if not associated to a pipeline. 
```suggestion
A pipeline can have one or more triggers, which are associated with events from a source of change. The most common type of trigger is a VCS event, for example, a push to a branch on a GitHub repository. Any system that can emit outbound webhooks can be set up as a trigger. A trigger can have only one pipeline but a pipeline can have multiple triggers.
```

A trigger kicks off a pipeline to run the workflows defined in your connected config source.

== Add a trigger

> NOTE: Bitbucket Cloud triggers are created automatically when setting up a project and they cannot be edited. The only additional trigger types available for Bitbucket Cloud pipelines are xref:scheduled-pipelines.adoc[scheduled triggers].

Reviewer: I like that here you refer to them as **schedule triggers**, in other places they're referred to as scheduled _pipelines_. 
I will open a PR soon to start working on changing that language

NOTE: **Using CircleCI server?** The Pipeline and Trigger pages under Project Settings and pipeline and trigger add/edit functionality is **not** available. CircleCI server pipelines are set up when a project is set up and cannot be edited. CircleCI server requires CircleCI configuration files to be stored in the same repository as your code at `.circleci/config.yml`.

The pipeline and trigger options and features available to you depend on how your code is integrated and where it is stored. For a feature availability overview, see the xref:integration:version-control-system-integration-overview.adoc[VCS integration overview] page.

There are broadly three types of triggers:

* VCS triggers.
* Custom webhooks used for triggering pipelines from external services.
* Schedule triggers.

To add a trigger for a pipeline, follow these steps:

> [tabs]

Reviewer: Technically this is missing the GitHub OAuth trigger

Reviewer: I wonder if a table like this would be helpful here.

<img width="450" height="666" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-19 at 15 09 30" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9b291317-1b45-4835-aa09-5adc5d9d01f5" />

include::ROOT:partial$pipelines-and-triggers/custom-webhook-setup.adoc[]

To verify your trigger is set up correctly, trigger an event from your third party system.
--
GitLab::
+
--

When a trigger is created, CircleCI registers a webhook with GitLab. Push events from GitLab are sent to CircleCI. CircleCI then uses the event data to determine _if_ a pipeline should run, and if so, _which_ pipeline should be run.

In addition to a pipeline, each trigger includes the webhook URL, and in this scenario, a CircleCI-created GitLab token. The webhook URL and GitLab token are used to securely register the webhook within GitLab in order to receive push events from your GitLab repository. You can view webhooks for a project in GitLab at menu:Settings[Webhooks].

image::guides:ROOT:add-trigger.png[Add a trigger]

To add a trigger for a pipeline, follow these steps:

. In the link:https://app.circleci.com/[CircleCI web app] select **Projects** in the sidebar
. Find your project in the list, select the ellipsis image:guides:ROOT:icons/more.svg[more icon, role="no-border"] next to it and choose **Project Settings**.
. Select **Triggers** in the sidebar.
+

> TIP: If you do not see **Triggers** in the sidebar, your project is integrated using either xref:integration:github-integration.adoc[GitHub OAuth] or xref:integration:bitbucket-integration.adoc[Bitbucket Cloud] and these steps do not apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: If you do not see **Triggers** in the sidebar, your project may not yet have any Gitlab pipelines. To create one, navigate to the **Project setup** tab and click the link to create a new Gitlab pipeline at the bottom of the page. 
If you do not see this link, your project may be integrated using either xref:integration:github-integration.adoc[GitHub OAuth] or xref:integration:bitbucket-integration.adoc[Bitbucket Cloud] and these steps do not apply. 
```

Reviewer: @rosieyohannan if it's not clear let me know and I'll explain what I'm trying to say
